---
title: "Web Security for Beginners: An Interactive Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) Demo"
date: "2020-04-10T12:00:00.000Z"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "/blog/csrf/"
img:
useKatex: true
category: "Security"
tags:
  - "Security"
  - "Web Development"
  - "For Beginners"
  - "Demo"
description: An interactive tutorial on CSRF where YOU are the victim.
prev: "/blog/minify-svgs/"
next: "/blog/properly-size-images/"
---

You've probably seen the phrase _Cross-Site Request Forgery_ (CSRF) thrown around somewhere before. To sum it up simply, CSRF is a web security exploit where an attacker induces a victim to **perform an action they didn't mean to.** In this post, you'll see _firsthand_ how CSRF works. Ready?

## Setting the Scene

You're a responsible, hardworking person. You've saved up your money over the years at **Definitely Secure Bank®**. You love Definitely Secure Bank - they've always been good to you, plus they make it easy to transfer money via their website. Sweet, right?

To get in character, let's have you open up your online banking portal and look around. <b><a href="http://localhost:3000/login" target="_blank">Click here to open Definitely Secure Bank's website</a></b> and login. Use **any username** and **any password** you want (don't worry - it's _definitely_ secure). Keep that tab open for the rest of this post.

Once you've logged in, you should see a landing page that looks something like this:

TODO SCREENSHOT

Nice! You've got $20,000 saved up! It'd be a shame if someone stole it...

Notice also the "**Make Transfer**" button. That's a nice feature the Definitely Secure Bank website offers - you you can send money online with just one click! Let's give it a go now - send a dollar to test and see what happens:

TODO SCREENSHOT

## One Fateful Day...

...you get an email titled: **⚠️ Limited Time Offer! 🎁 Get a $100 Visa Gift Card Now!! ⚠️**

<span class="emph-special">Woah</span>, you think to yourself, <span class="emph-special">I could use a free $100 gift card!</span> What could go wrong? You open the email and click the link:

<div>
  <csrf-post-button post-click-children="You claimed your free $100!">Click Here to get your free $100</csrf-post-button>
</div>

> Assuming that button worked, you should've just seen an alert saying you'd receive your $100 gift card soon.

<span class="emph-special">Nice! That was an easy $100</span>, you think while mentally patting yourself on the back.

Little do you know, there's no \$100 gift card (what?!?!) - in fact, **you've just lost $10,000.** Don't believe me? Go check your [Definitely Secure Bank](http://localhost:3000/) tab (the one I told you to keep open for this post). It should look something like this:

TODO SCREENSHOT

<span class="emph-special">No!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!</span>, you scream (silently in your head). <span class="emph-special">Impossible! How could this happen??</span>

## How It Happened

The first step was that **you logged in**, which means you have a session cookie set.

You might be thinking, <span class="emph-special">Wait, what? 🍪🍪🍪 Cookie?</span>. In case you are, we're going pause momentarily for:

### A crash course on [web] cookies

> Feel free to skip this part if you don't need a refresher on what web cookies are.

Cookies are data sent from a web server that gets **stored by the user's browser** and subsequently **included on future requests** to that server. For example, when logging into a site, something like this happens:

1. Your browser sends your username/password to the server.
2. The server verifies your username/password.
3. Upon success, the server responds with a custom cookie for you, often referred to as a **session cookie**.
4. On future requests, your browser includes the session cookie. The server checks your session cookie each time and now knows who you're logged-in as.

This is why you can login to Facebook, close it, re-open it later, and still be logged in - your session cookie was saved by your browser!

> More reading on web cookies: [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Cookies), [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_cookie).

### Now, back to... How It Happened

Okay, so we've established that your session cookie was set because you'd already logged in. Let's get to the juicy part.

Here's the Javascript that was run when you clicked that button:

```js
fetch('https://dsb.victorzhou.com/transfer', {
  credentials: 'include', // include cookies, despite being a cross-origin request
  method: 'post',
  mode: 'no-cors',
  body: new URLSearchParams('amount=1000&description=Gotcha!&to=Evil-Scammers'),
});
```
<figcaption>Uses the <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Fetch API</a></figcaption>.

This sends an [HTTP POST](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods/POST) request to the Definitely Secure Bank's (DSB) `/transfer` endpoint with these parameters:

| Parameter | Value |
| --- | --- |
| amount | 1000 |
| description | Gotcha! |
| to | Evil-Scammers |

Coincidentally, that happens to be exactly how the DSB website's nifty "Make Transfer" feature works! You can [see the code the DSB website runs](TODO) when you click "Submit Transfer" and compare for yourself.
